\mainmatter

# Introduction {#introduction .unnumbered}

Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) can be considered one of the most
critical health problems of the century. That is, microorganisms'
ability to grow despite exposure to substances designed to inhibit their
growth or kill them. In April 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO)
published its first global report on AMR surveillance
[@EditorialBoard2014]. Taking out of the darkness a common fear, a
possible post-antibiotic future in which common infections or minor
injuries can kill. Therefore, understanding the mechanisms of avoiding
antibiotic action is essential for producing knowledge and developing
strategies that reduce the generation of resistant bacteria.

Donec vitae turpis porttitor, tincidunt lorem ut, placerat ex. Ut
efficitur vel ante ut auctor. Morbi metus nisl, ullamcorper eu ante ac,
rutrum porttitor libero. Morbi rhoncus dui nulla, in tempus arcu
scelerisque eget. Proin rutrum ex at nibh faucibus luctus. Duis
scelerisque facilisis pulvinar. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante
ipsum primis in faucibus. Fusce eu bibendum elit. Ut id sodales mauris.
Pellentesque in ipsum est.

Pellentesque neque dolor, vehicula ut porttitor eget, rhoncus id mi.
Suspendisse potenti. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. In sit amet felis
eget ante lacinia venenatis ac vitae turpis. Cras eget orci ut massa
egestas placerat vehicula vitae elit. Phasellus iaculis purus varius ex
pharetra, at faucibus est tristique. Sed vehicula venenatis leo, vitae
condimentum risus facilisis at. Praesent turpis tortor, finibus ut elit
in, vulputate ultricies tortor. Nam vel mauris non odio imperdiet
lobortis.
